# Data Analytics Internship Project

## Project Overview
This project consists of an exploratory data analysis for potato chip sales of a grocery store.

Transaction and consumer segmentation data are examined to gain insights for organizational improvement.

## Objectives
- Analyze Consumer Transaction Data.
- Extrapolate Essential Business Metrics.
- Investigate key trends on consumer segments. 

## Results
#### Sales Metrics Insights:
Total Sales Revenue: $1,819,778.40


Total Bags sold: 475,909 bags


The average revenue received per bag: $3.82


52.93% of revenue was generated by products sold between $3 and $4.50.


34.68% of revenue was generated by high priced brands and bags above $4.50.

#### Consumer Segmentation Analysis:
Consumer Segment: Premium
Older singles/couples segment had the highest sales with 31,869 packs and revenue of 123,668.95.

Consumer Segment: Budget
The Older families lifestage segment had the highest sales at 42,425 packs and revenue of 158,379.95.

Consumer Segment: Mainstream
The Mainstream Customer segment had the highest sales and quantity.


The Young Singles/Couples lifestage segment had the highest sales at 36,350 packs and revenue of 147,634.30.


Retirees also had sales results that were very close at 37,968 packs sold with revenue of 146,328.75.


The older singles/couples lifestage segment was the customer segment with the strongest sales overall with total revenue of 376,366.65.

Recommendation:
Target marketing towards older families, retirees, older singles/couples and young singles/couples would likely yield stronger sales results.

#### Product Type Sales Analysis:
Potato Chip Sales represent 66.0% of the total sales revenue and 66.3% of the total quantity of chips sold.

The average sales revenue recieved per pack of chips made from potatoes was: $3.79.




## Process
